Now before I conclude this very basic starting module with rest,
let me show you something important which you need to configure on any rest API or building which will
not only be used by tools like this one or by code that runs on the same server and I can demonstrate
what I mean by going to codepen.
In case you don't know codepen, it's basically a service which you can use for free to write simple
html, javascript and css snippets or projects, you can share them easily with other people and we can simulate
a very simple frontend application here.
We can create a new pen for that
and here you can write as you see html, css and javascript code.
Now I'll not need css because I want to keep it simple
and this is a great playground here now because we can simulate a frontend app here because a frontend
app if it is a single page app will only use html, css and javascript because we don't write
any server side code in there, right.
So in here, we might have a normal button, a button we use to send a request to the backend, here we
could get our posts and I'll copy that button and also duplicate it to create a post and this is of course just
a very basic dummy code,
we'll build a different project for the rest of this course.
But now I have these two buttons here in my pen as you can see. Now let's add some javascript code to do something
with them and for that, I'll need to get access to these buttons
so I'll give the first one an ID of get and the second one an ID of post, just to keep this really simple.
So my get button can be accessed with document get element by id and then it's get
and the second button of course is the same with post, so I'll name it post button and I'm looking for the
element with the id post.
So I just want to get access to them so that I can register a listener,
so on the get button I can add an event listener for the click event that should in the end make a request
to my backend. So I'll define an anonymous arrow function here and in there, I'll use the fetch API which is built
into modern browsers with the fetch keyword where I can define a url to which I want to send a http
request
and in my case that is http://localhost8080/feed/posts,
remember that is simply this route I defined here. So I want to send a request to that route or to that
endpoint as you learned, by default this is a get request when using the fetch method
and then we might have either a success case which we can handle in the then block or we have an error. If
we have an error, I'll just log my error here, in the then block we actually get back a response object
where we still need to wait for the body to complete because it will be streamed in.
So with res json we can wait for this and then automatically convert it to json content or to a javascript
object
and then we chain another then block where we will have that javascript object
because as I mentioned on the slides, json can be converted really well to javascript and the json
method does just that, the conversion
and it waits for the body to be streamed in
and then I can console log my response data here.
Now let's open up the developer tools,
clear these existing errors here which were only created whilst I was still typing and you don't need
to save anything,
it saves automatically and click get posts and you should get a no access control allow origin headers
present error.
This is an error
you see a lot when building modern web applications,
modern single page applications and it often leads to a lot of confusion.
This error is also called a cors error and you see the word cors down there,
now what is cors and what's causing it
and most importantly how can we solve it?
Cors stands for cross origin resource sharing and by default, this is not allowed by browsers.
So if we have our client in the server and they run in the same domain and the domain could be localhost
3000, important the port is part of the domain, if they run on the same server, we can send requests and
responses as we want to without issues and that is why we had no issue before in the course. We rendered
our html files on the server and therefore they were served by the same server as you send your requests
to
so we never had any issues,
so this works. However if client server run on different domains like the client on localhost 4000 which
is a different domain than, 3000 then we'll have issues
and of course in production, you would run on my app.com and let's say myAPI.com. If you
send requests and responses here, you get problems, you get a cors error because it's a security mechanism
provided by the browser that you can't share resources across domains, across servers, across origins
as it's called here.
However we can overwrite this because this mechanism makes sense for some applications, for rest
APIs, it typically does not.
We want to allow our server to share its data,
we want to offer data from our server to different clients and these clients will often not be served
by the same server as our API runs on.
Take Google Maps, you're not running your app on Google servers,
still you can access it and the same is true for your own API and even if you build both the frontend
and the backend, you will often serve the two ends from different servers because you can choose a server
for the frontend that's optimized for frontend code that really serves that really well and you serve
your server side code, your node code from a different server, so you will have different domains, different
addresses there too
and therefore we need to solve such a cors error or we need to tell the browser here which runs on
codepen in this case here,
we need to tell that browser that it may accept the response sent by our server. And to tell the browser,
we have to change something on the server
and this is a common gotcha.
A lot of people see that error and want to solve it in their browser side javascript code,
you just can't,
you can only solve that on the server.
So if we go back to our server side code, we just need to set some special headers,
we want to set these headers on any response that leaves our server,
so the app.js file and a general middleware is a great place.
So here before I forward the requests to my routes where I will ultimately send the response, I want
to add headers to any response. So I'll set up a general middleware in app.js which gets my request response
next function
and there with set header, we can conveniently add a header to the response.
We don't send the response yet,
set header does not send it,
json does render that but set header does not, set header will only modify it and add a new header
and now there are a couple of headers we need to set.
The first one is the access-control-allow-origin, all separated with dash, so access-control
-allow-origin, that is the first header we need to set and we want to set it to all the urls,
all the domains that should be able to access our server.
So we could add codepen.io here but often you will just set this to start, to a wildcard that allows
access from any client.
You could lock it down to specific domains though if you wanted to,
if you have multiple domains, you can separate them with commas
but I will go with the wildcard.
I will also set another header and that is the access-control-allow-methods header.
Here we allowed a specific origin to access our content, our data,
now we allow these origins to use specific http methods because by just unlocking the origins, it would
still not work,
we also need to tell the clients, the origins which methods are allowed
and there you can allow get, post, put, patch delete, you don't have to allow them all,
you can only allow what you want to be usable from outside.
Now there's one last header I want to set or I should set and that is access-control-allow-
and now I'm talking about the headers
our clients might set on their requests. There
you could also use a wildcard where you can specify specific headers.
Now there are some default headers which are always allowed but you especially want to add the content
-type header and the authorization header so that your clients can send requests that hold extra authorization
data in the header which we'll need later and that also define the content type of the request and
that will become important soon too. With that added we need to do one last thing, we need to call next
so that the request can now continue and can be handled by our routes
but now every response that we send will have these headers and therefore if we save our server side
code and we restart the server therefore and we go back to codepen, if I clear these errors and I click
get posts again,
now it just works as you can see because now we set the appropriate cors headers on the server.